## 36. Annotated Bibliography

### Beginner

- Stephen C. Dewhurst. C++ Gotchas: Avoiding Common Problems in Coding and Design. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2002. ISBN: 0-321-12518-5.
	- Provides 99 specific tips for C++ programming.

- Stephen Prata, C++ Primer Plus, 6th ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2011. ISBN: 0-321-77640-2.
	- One of the most comprehensive C++ books available.
### I/O Streams and Strings

- Cameron Hughes and Tracey Hughes. Stream Manipulators and Iterators in C++. www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=171014.
	- A well-written article that takes the mystery out of defining custom stream manipulators in C++.

-  Philip Romanik and Amy Muntz. Applied C++: Practical Techniques for Building Better Software. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2003. ISBN: 0-321-10894-9.
	- A unique blend of software development advice and C++ specifics, as well as a very good explanation of locale and Unicode support in C++.

- Joel Spolsky. The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!). www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/Unicode.html.
	- A treatise by Joel Spolsky on the importance of localization. After reading this, you’ll want to check out the other entries on his Joel on Software website.

- The Unicode Consortium. The Unicode Standard 5.0, 5th ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2006. ISBN: 0-321-48091-0.
	- The definitive book on Unicode, which all developers using Unicode must have.

- Unicode, Inc. Where is my Character? www.unicode.org/standard/where.
	- The best resource for finding Unicode characters, charts, and tables.

- Wikipedia. Universal Coded Character Set. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Character_Set.
	- An explanation of what the Universal Character Set (UCS) is, including the Unicode standard.
### C++ Templates

- Herb Sutter. “Sutter’s Mill: Befriending Templates.” C/C++ User’s Journal. www.drdobbs.com/befriending-templates/184403853.
	- An excellent explanation of making function templates friends of classes.
### C++11/C++14/C++17/C++20

- C++ Standards Committee Papers. www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers.
	- A wealth of papers written by the C++ standards committee.

- ECMAScript 2017 Language Specification. www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-262.pdf.
	- One of the syntaxes of the regular expressions in C++ is the same as the regular expressions in the ECMAScript language, as described in this specification document.
### Unified  Modeling Language

- Russ Miles and Kim Hamilton. Learning UML 2.0: A Pragmatic Introduction to UML. O’Reilly Media, 2006. ISBN: 0-596-00982-8.
	- A very readable book on UML 2.0. The authors use Java in examples, but they are convertible to C++ without too much trouble.
### Algorithms and Data Structures

- Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, and Clifford Stein. Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd ed. The MIT Press, 2009. ISBN: 0-262-03384-4.
	- One of the most popular introductory algorithms books, covering all the common data structures and algorithms.

- Kyle Loudon. Mastering Algorithms with C: Useful Techniques from Sorting to Encryption. O’Reilly Media, 1999. ISBN: 1-565-92453-3.
	- An approachable reference to data structures and algorithms.
### Random Numbers

- Eric Bach and Jeffrey Shallit. Algorithmic Number Theory, Efficient Algorithms. The MIT Press, 1996. ISBN: 0-262-02405-5.
- Oded Goldreich. Modern Cryptography, Probabilistic Proofs and Pseudorandomness. Springer, 1999. ISBN: 3-642-08432-X.
	- Two books that explain the theory of computational pseudo-randomness.

 - Wikipedia. Mersenne Twister. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mersenne_twister.
	 - A mathematical explanation of the Mersenne Twister, used to generate pseudo-random numbers.
### Open-Source Software

- The Open Source Initiative. opensource.org.
- The GNU Operating System—Free Software Foundation. gnu.org.
	- Websites where the two main open-source movements explain their philosophies and provide information about obtaining open-source software and contributing to its development.

- The Boost C++ Libraries. boost.org.
	- A huge number of free, peer-reviewed portable C++ source libraries. This website is definitely worth checking out.

- github.com and sourceforge.net.
	- Two websites that host many open-source projects. These are great resources for finding useful open-source software.

- codeguru.com and codeproject.com.
	- Excellent resources to find free libraries and code for reuse in your own projects.

### Software Engineering Methodology

- Robert C. Martin. Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices. Pearson, 2003. ISBN: 978-1292025940.
	- Written for software engineers “in the trenches,” this text focuses on the technology - the principles, patterns, and process - that help software engineers effectively manage increasingly complex operating systems and applications.

- Mike Cohn. Succeeding with Agile: Software Development Using Scrum. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2009. ISBN: 0-321-57936-4.
	- An excellent guide to start with the Scrum methodology.

- David Thomas and Andrew Hunt, The Pragmatic Programmer, Your Journey To Mastery, 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2019. ISBN: 978-0135957059.
	- A new edition of a classic book, and a must-read for every software engineer. More than 20 years later, the advice of the first edition is still spot on. It examines the core process - what do you do, as an individual and as a team, if you want to create software that’s easy to work with and good for your users.

- Barry W. Boehm, TRW Defense Systems Group. “A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement.” IEEE Computer, 21(5): 61–72, 1988.
	- A landmark paper that described the state of software development at the time and proposed the spiral model.

- Kent Beck and Cynthia Andres. Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change, 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2004. ISBN: 0-321-27865-8.
	- One of several books in a series that promote eXtreme Programming as a new approach to software development.

- Robert T. Futrell, Donald F. Shafer, and Linda Isabell Shafer. Quality Software Project Management. Prentice Hall, 2002. ISBN: 0-130-91297-2.
	- A guidebook for anybody who is responsible for the management of software development processes.

- Robert L. Glass. Facts and Fallacies of Software Engineering. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2002. ISBN: 0-321-11742-5.
	- Discusses various aspects of the software development process and exposes hidden truisms along the way.

- Edward Yourdon. Death March, 2nd ed. Prentice Hall, 2003. ISBN: 0-131-43635-X.
	- A wonderfully enlightening book about the politics and realities of software development.

- Manifesto for Agile Software Development. agilemanifesto.org/.
	- The complete agile software development manifesto.

- Wikipedia. Version control. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control.
	- Explains the concepts behind revision control systems and what kinds of solutions are available.
### Programming Style

- Bjarne Stroustrup and Herb Sutter. C++ Core Guidelines. github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines/blob/master/CppCoreGuidelines.md.
	- This document is a set of guidelines for using C++ well. The aim of this document is to help people to use modern C++ effectively.

- Martin Fowler. Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code, 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2018. ISBN: 0-134-75759-9.
	- A new edition of a classic book that espouses the practice of recognizing and improving bad code.

- Diomidis Spinellis. Code Reading: The Open Source Perspective. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2003. ISBN: 0-201-79940-5.
	- A unique book that turns the issue of programming style upside down by challenging the reader to learn to read code properly in order to become a better programmer.

- Dimitri van Heesch. Doxygen. www.doxygen.nl/index.html.
	- A highly configurable program that generates documentation from source code and comments.

- John Aycock. Reading and Modifying Code. John Aycock, 2008. ISBN 0-980-95550-5.
	- A nice little book with advice about how to perform the most common operations on code: reading, modifying, testing, debugging, and writing.

- Wikipedia. Code refactoring. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refactoring.
	- A discussion of what code refactoring means, including a number of techniques for refactoring.

- Google. Google C++ Style Guide. google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html.
	- A discussion of the C++ style guidelines used at Google.
### Computer Architecture

- David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy. Computer Organization and Design: The Hardware/Software Interface, 4th ed. Morgan Kaufmann, 2011. ISBN: 0-123-74493-8.
- John L. Hennessy and David A. Patterson. Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 5th ed. Morgan Kaufmann, 2011. ISBN: 0-123-83872-X.
	- Two books that provide all the information most software engineers will ever need to know about computer architecture.
### Testing

- Elfriede Dustin. Effective Software Testing: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your Testing. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2002. ISBN: 0-201-79429-2.
	- A book aimed at quality assurance professionals, although any software engineer will benefit from this book’s discussion of the software-testing process.
### Debugging

- Diomidis Spinellis. Effective Debugging: 66 Specific Ways to Debug Software and Systems. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2016. ISBN: 978-0134394794.
	- This book helps experienced programmers accelerate their journey to mastery, by systematically categorizing, explaining, and illustrating the most useful debugging methods, strategies, techniques, and tools.

- The GNU Debugger (GDB). www.gnu.org/software/gdb/gdb.html.
	- An excellent command-line symbolic debugger.

- Valgrind. valgrind.org/.
	- An open-source memory-debugging tool for Linux.
### Design Patterns

- Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, and John Vlissides. Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software. Addison-Wesley Professional, 1994. ISBN: 0-201-63361-2.
	- Called the “Gang of Four” (GoF) book (because of its four authors), the seminal work on design patterns.

- John Vlissides. Pattern Hatching: Design Patterns Applied. Addison-Wesley Professional, 1998. ISBN: 0-201-43293-5. 
	- A companion to the GoF book, explaining how patterns can actually be applied.

- Eric Freeman, Bert Bates, Kathy Sierra, and Elisabeth Robson. Head First Design Patterns. O’Reilly Media, 2004. ISBN: 0-596-00712-4.
	- A book that goes further than just listing design patterns. The authors show good and bad examples of using patterns and give solid reasoning behind each pattern.

- Wikipedia. Software design pattern. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_pattern_(computer_science).
	- Contains descriptions of a large number of design patterns used in computer programming.
### Operating Systems

- Abraham Silberschatz, Peter B. Galvin, and Greg Gagne. Operating System Concepts, 10th ed. Wiley, 2018. ISBN: 1-119-45633-9.
	- A great discussion on operating systems, including multithreading issues such as deadlocks and race conditions.
### Multithreaded Programming

- Anthony Williams. C++ Concurrency in Action, 2nd ed. Manning Publications, 2019. ISBN: 1-617-29469-1.
	- An excellent book on practical multithreaded programming, including the C++ threading library.

- Cameron Hughes and Tracey Hughes. Professional Multicore Programming: Design and Implementation for C++ Developers. Wrox, 2008. ISBN: 0-470-28962-7.
	- A book for developers of various skill levels who are making the move into multicore programming.

- Maurice Herlihy and Nir Shavit. The Art of Multiprocessor Programming. Morgan Kaufmann, 2012. ISBN: 0-123-97337-6.
	- A great book on writing code for multiprocessor and multicore systems.


