# 1. C++: With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility

- An estimated 10 billion lines of C++ code are currently running in production environments. Numerous teams and millions of developers from different backgrounds have written this code over a span of years. Each developer has a view of proper programming models, what good C++ code is, and which development methodologies should be used.
- This volume of code produced by these developers varies considerably in its correctness, readability, effectiveness, and performance. Much of the code is imperative in paradigm; some are object-oriented, and a small amount is functional. Some code was written by novices, much more by experts, but not necessarily experts in C++ design and implementation.

- This book focuses on problems made when writing programs in C++, particularly pre-modern or classical development.
- The large installed base of pre￾modern C++ code makes understanding these issues relevant and their remediation critical. After reading this book, programmers should be better able to identify and correct the discussed problems. Further, mistakes not discussed should be easier to identify and fix. Thinking through issues should make any developer more attuned to some of the nuances of the language and the development process.

- If you are a newer developer in C++, you have a daunting task ahead of you in supporting thousands or millions of lines of existing code. Yet, daunting is not the same as impossible. Methodical analysis and studious consideration of language features, best practices, and past mistakes will prepare you to handle any situation better. Supporting C++ is a long-haul process; one does not master the language or the code base in a few months. But rest assured, you can grow steadily over the coming months and years. And, if you are someone like me, you will enjoy the process for the most part. Dealing with frustration is a constant issue for developers in any language, often because of past decisions that have proven to be questionable or poor. Look for the good, the smart, and the elegant choices in others’ code, and you will soon be doing the same in yours.

- This book offers one hundred insights into current and legacy C++ code issues and mistakes. Your code base will undoubtedly contain some or many of these. However, there will be numerous other issues and mistakes that need to be addressed here. Understanding the approach and fixes for the ones mentioned should prepare you to determine and resolve those that need to be addressed. If you are writing new code, either a new project or a port from a different language, understanding the mistakes can prevent introducing these and similar ones into the code base.
