# 2. Introduction

- The demand for system programming is enormous. With the ubiquity of web browsers, mobile devices, and the Internet of Things, there has perhaps never been a better time to be a system programmer. Efficient, maintainable, and correct code is desired in all cases, and it’s my firm belief that C++ is the right language for the job in general.

- In the hands of a knowledgeable programmer, C++ can produce smaller, more efficient, and more readable code than any other system programming language on the planet. It’s a language committed to the ideal of zero-overhead abstraction mechanisms - so your programs are fast and quick to program - as well as simple, direct mapping to hardware - so you have low-level control when you need it. When you program in C++, you stand on the shoulders of giants who have spent decades crafting an incredibly powerful and flexible language.

- A huge benefit of learning C++ is that you gain access to the C++ Standard Library, the stdlib, free of charge. The stdlib is composed of three interlocking parts: containers, iterators, and algorithms. If you’ve ever written your own quicksort algorithm by hand or if you’ve programmed system code and been bitten by buffer overflows, dangling pointers, use-after frees, and double frees, you’ll enjoy getting acquainted with the stdlib. It provides you with an unrivaled combination of type safety, correctness, and efficiency. In addition, you’ll like how compact and expressive your code can be.

- At the core of the C++ programming model is the object life cycle, which gives you strong guarantees that resources your program uses, such as files, memory, and network sockets, release correctly, even when error conditions occur. When used effectively, exceptions can clean out large amounts of error-condition-checking clutter from your code. Also, move/copy semantics provide safety, efficiency, and flexibility to manage resource ownership in a way that earlier system programming languages, like C, simply don’t provide.

- C++ is a living, breathing language; after more than 30 years, the ISO committee for C++ regularly makes improvements in the language. Several updates to the standard have been released in the past decade: C++11, C++14, and C++17, which were released in 2011, 2014, and 2017, respectively. You can expect a new C++20 in 2020. When I use the term modern C++, I mean the latest C++ version that embraces the features and paradigms presented in these additions. These updates have made serious refinements to the language that improve its expressiveness, efficiency, safety, and overall usability. By some measures, the language has never been more popular, and it’s not going away any time soon. If you decide to invest in learning C++, it will pay dividends for years to come.

## Who Should Read This Book?

- This book is intended for intermediate to advanced programmers already familiar with basic programming concepts. If you don’t specifically have system programming experience, that’s okay. Experienced application programmers are welcome.
---