# Preface

- Certainly the expression of style has much to do with the philosophy and mindset that goes into it, and that is true whether we're talking about building architecture or software architecture. 
## Style or Substance?

- ***Which is better?***
- Don't be too sure you know the answer. For one thing, "better" is an unuseful term unless you define specific measures. Better for what? Better in which cases? For another, the answer is almost always a balance of the two and begins with: "It depends..."

- This book is about finding that balance in many detailed aspects of software design and implementation in C++, and knowing your tools and materials well to know when they are appropriate.

- Quick: Is the Parliament building a better building, crafted with better style, than the comparatively drab ones around it? It's easy to say yes unthinkingly - until you have to consider building and maintaining it:
	- ***Construction***. When it was completed in 1902, this was the largest Parliament building in the world. It also cost a horrendous amount of time, effort, and money to produce and was considered by many to be a "white elephant," which means a beautiful thing that comes at too high a cost. Consider: By comparison, how many of the ugly, drab, and perhaps outright boring concrete buildings could have been built for the same investment? And you work in an industry where the time-to-market pressure is far fiercer than the time pressure was in the age of this Parliament.
	- ***Maintenance***. Those of you familiar with the Parliament will note that in this picture the Parliament building was under renovation and had been in that state for a number of years, at a controversial and arguably ruinous cost. But there's more to the maintenance story than just this recent round of expensive renovations: Sadly, the beautiful sculptures you can see on the exterior of the building were made of the wrong materials, materials that were too soft. Soon after the building was originally completed, those sculptures became the subjects of a continual repair program under which they have been replaced with successively harder and more durable materials, and the heavy maintenance of the "bells and whistles" begun in the early 1900s has gone on continuously ever since - for the past century.

- Likewise in software, it is important to find the right balance between construction cost and functionality, between elegance and maintainability, between the potential for growth and excessive ornateness.

- We deal with these and similar tradeoffs every day as we go about software design and architecture in C++. Among the questions this book tackles are the following: Does making your code exception-safe make it better? If so, for what meanings of "better," and when might it not be better? That question is addressed specifically in this book. What about encapsulation; does it make your software better? Why? When doesn't it? If you're wondering, read on. Is inlining a good optimization, and when is it done? (Be very very careful when you answer this one.) What does C++'s export feature have in common with the Parliament building? What does std::string have in common with the monolithic architecture of the Danube waterfront in our idyllic little scene?

- Finally, after considering many C++ techniques and features, at the end of this book we'll spend our last section looking at real examples of published code and see what the authors did well, what they did poorly, and what alternatives would perhaps have struck a better balance between workmanlike substance and exceptional C++ style.

- What do I hope that this and the other Exceptional C++ books will help to do for you? I hope they will add perspective, add knowledge of details and interrelationships, and add understanding of how balances can be struck in your software's favor. Please look one more time at the front cover photo, at the top right - that's it, right there. We should want to be in the balloon flying over the city, enjoying the full perspective of the whole view, seeing how style and substance coexist and interact and interrelate and intermingle, knowing how to make the trade-offs and strike the right balances, each choice in its place in the integral and thriving whole.

## The Exceptional Socrates

- The Greek philosopher Socrates taught by asking his students questions - questions designed to guide them and help them draw conclusions from what they already knew and to show them how the things they were learning related to each other and to their existing knowledge. This method has become so famous that we now call it the Socratic method. From our point of view as students, Socrates' legendary approach involves us, makes us think, and helps us relate and apply what we already know to new information.

- This book takes a page from Socrates. It assumes you're involved in some aspect of writing production C++ software today, and it uses a question-answer format to teach how to make effective use of standard C++ and its standard library, with a particular focus on sound software engineering in modern C++. Many of the problems are drawn directly from experiences I and others have encountered while working with production C++ code. The goal of the questions is to help you draw conclusions from things you already know as well as things you've just learned, and to show how they interrelate. The puzzles will show how to reason about C++ design and programming issues - some of them common issues, some not so common; some of them plain issues, some more esoteric; and a couple because, well, just because they're fun.

- This book is about all aspects of C++. I don't mean to say that it touches on every detail of C++ - that would require many more pages - but rather that it draws from the wide palette of the C++ language and library features to show how apparently unrelated items can be used together to synthesize novel solutions to common problems. It also shows how apparently unrelated parts of the palette interrelate on their own, even when you don't want them to, and what to do about it. You will find material here about templates and namespaces, exceptions and inheritance, solid class design and design patterns, generic programming and macro magic - and not just as randomized tidbits, but as cohesive Items showing the interrelationships among all these parts of modern C++.
---